<html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">

<head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/base.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/global.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/guide08/resources/css/global.css" />
    <title>10. Securing the evidence</title>
    <meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type" />
</head>

<body>
    <h3>10. Securing the evidence</h3>

    <p>You should only search for and seize chemical waste if you are lawfully entitled to do so.</p>

    <p>There are many ways that evidence relating to chemical waste crimes may come into your possession. It may be as
        a result of a person search, vehicle or vessel search, searching a container or searching a residential or
        business premises. Irrespective of how this evidence comes into your possession <em><strong>you must document
                the scene and record the actions you take when you seize the digital media device or other supporting
                evidence</strong></em>.</p>

    <p>This evidence may consist of chemical waste products but also evidence that helps prove the smuggling of
        chemical waste.</p>

    <p><strong>These other types of evidence may include:</strong></p>

    <ul>
        <li>Cell phones</li>
        <li>Cargo manifests</li>
        <li>Computers</li>
        <li>Bank statements</li>
        <li>Travel documentation</li>
        <li>Accommodation documentation</li>
        <li>Cash</li>
        <li>Transporter documentation</li>
        <li>Digital media devices</li>
    </ul>

    <p><strong>Prior to the search you should:</strong></p>

    <ul>
        <li>Photograph and/or video the search area</li>
        <li>Draw a map of the scene</li>
        <li>If you have other officers to assist you assign each a specific role i.e. search, exhibit officer, officer
            in charge and photographer</li>
    </ul>

    <p><strong>During the search you should:</strong></p>

    <ul>
        <li>Search the area systematically</li>
        <li>Video the search</li>
        <li>Document the location where each item is found</li>
        <li>Bag or secure items seized clearly labelling each with a unique identification number</li>
        <li>Create a record of all items seized</li>
        <li>Complete chain of custody documentation</li>
    </ul>

    <p>Exhibits may also contain traces of DNA and fingerprints. You should enquire with your Supervisor whether your
        agency have the facilities to collect and analyse this type of evidence. It may be crucial evidence in
        identifying suspects where the chemical waste was sourced.</p>

</body>

</html>