<html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />


    


    <title>15. Transporting, Storage and Disposing of Chemica..</title>
    
<meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type" />
 </head>
<body>
<h2><strong>15. Transporting, Storage and Disposing of Chemical Waste</strong></h2>

<p>After you seize chemical waste you may be required to safely dispose of it. To do this you may need to transport it to an accredited waste facility or government storage facility. You have a duty of care to your staff and for those officers who transport or store the chemical waste, so it needs to be done in accordance with your government’s policies and safety procedures.</p>

<p><strong>Transporting Chemical Waste</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li>Ensure your methods does not contravene legislation for transportation of chemical waste</li>
	<li>Check the weather before transporting chemical waste, particularly if you are transporting</li>
	<li>leaking or rusty drums</li>
	<li>Ensure your vehicle is adequate to transport the chemical waste</li>
	<li>Ensure the load is secured correctly</li>
	<li>Ensure you have the correct machinery to load and unload the vehicle</li>
	<li>Ensure each item is initially labelled or marked</li>
	<li>Observe the loading of the chemical waste to ensure chain of custody and that the correct exhibits have been loaded</li>
	<li>Provide an escort if possible</li>
</ul>

<p><strong>Storage of Chemical Waste</strong></p>

<p>Chemical waste products may be poisonous or can contaminate the soil and water, so it is imperative that they are stored safely. Some types of chemical waste may also require specialised storage facilities or methods of disposal, so it is important that you are aware of the requirements for the chemical waste that you have seized. You may need to consult with experts from other government departments to confirm this.</p>

<p>You should always ensure that chemical waste products are stored:</p>

<ul>
	<li>· In a secure location with restricted access</li>
	<li>· In a manner that will ensure the physical integrity of the exhibit</li>
	<li>· In an appropriate container or drum</li>
	<li>· With the necessary safeguards to prevent spillage or contamination of the surrounding area</li>
	<li>· Adequate ventilation</li>
</ul>

<p><strong>Disposal of Chemical Waste</strong></p>

<p>Some law enforcement agencies are permitted to dispose of chemical waste products prior to a court hearing in accordance with their national legislation or as per departmental policy. Check whether your department has rules and procedures around the disposal of chemical waste.</p>

<p>Should you be authorised to dispose of the chemical waste prior to a court case ensure that you have:</p>

<ul>
	<li>Obtained permission to do so (if required)</li>
	<li>Taken or had taken any samples that you will need for court</li>
	<li>Photographed the relevant waste containers</li>
	<li>Recorded on the chain of custody form how you have disposed of the chemical waste</li>
	<li>Ensure that the disposal has been done in accordance with your departments policies around dangerous chemical waste</li>
	<li>Ensure that you have observed all safety protocols</li>
</ul>

<p>Failure to dispose of chemical waste correctly could potentially affect your case and bring adverse attention to you and your department.</p>

<p>You must always document the disposal of chemical waste.</p>

<p>&#160;</p>


</body></html>