<html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">

<head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/base.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/global.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/guide08/resources/css/global.css" />
    <title>14. Sharing Intelligence</title>
    <meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type" />
</head>

<body>
    <h3>14. Sharing Intelligence</h3>

    <p>Criminal networks are not bound by the rule of law and do not recognise state boundaries. They move between
        jurisdictions and seek to establish new networks where they can avoid detection and/or carry out operations.</p>

    <p>Similarly, law enforcement does not operate in a bubble. The sharing of intelligence is crucial to effectively
        address transnational organised crime, whether that sharing has a domestic or international focus.</p>

    <p>As a frontline law enforcement officer, you may come across individuals who are suspected of involvement in the
        smuggling of chemical waste. Information in relation to these individuals could be vitally important to other
        police or regulatory officers within your country or those of another country.</p>

    <p>Ensure that you adhere to your agency’s procedures in relation to intelligence sharing.</p>

    <p>You can share your intelligence in several different ways including:</p>

    <ul>
        <li>Through a graded intelligence report</li>
        <li>Through an email</li>
        <li>In a phone call</li>
        <li>Via a messaging application</li>
        <li>In person</li>
    </ul>

    <p>You may also wish to share intelligence with other border locations through your established intelligence
        sharing mechanisms.</p>

    <p>Transnational organised criminal networks can be sophisticated, adaptable and aware of law enforcement
        methodologies. To defeat these networks will take a network of law enforcement and intelligence agencies
        working together towards a common goal. Do not restrict yourself to your local intelligence landscape but look
        at this issue globally.</p>

</body>

</html>