<html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">

<head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/base.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/global.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/guide08/resources/css/global.css" />
    <title>4. Investigating Chemical Waste Crimes</title>
    <meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type" />
</head>

<body>
    <h2>4. Investigating Chemical Waste Crimes</h2>

    <p>An investigation into the smuggling of chemical waste is generally like the investigation of any other crime.
        Often these investigations will be reactive, such as a result of a seizure. Others may be proactive, such as
        where you are targeting an organised criminal network. Irrespective of the type of investigation you undertake
        there are several important things to consider, including:</p>

    <ul>
        <li>Have I identified the chemical waste subject to my investigation?</li>
        <li>Is this waste prohibited under national legislation?</li>
        <li>Do I have a legal basis for my investigation?</li>
        <li>Have I identified the offences that have been/suspect of being committed?</li>
        <li>Do I have sufficient resources to undertake the investigation?</li>
        <li>What are my department’s procedures?</li>
        <li>Have I identified a suspect for the crime?</li>
        <li>Do I need expert support to make safe the chemical waste?</li>
        <li>Do I have the ability to store and/or dispose of the chemical waste?</li>
    </ul>

    <p>Once you do this you will need to plan your investigation. You should prepare an investigation plan whether your
        investigation is reactive or proactive.</p>

    <p>Some investigation plans may be very comprehensive, while others may be only 1 page. For all criminal cases your
        investigation plan should as a minimum include:</p>

    <ul>
        <li>Relevant legislation and offence(s) committed?</li>
        <li>Suspect (if identified)?</li>
        <li>Resources you will need, human, financial and material?</li>
        <li>Does this case have a transnational component?</li>
        <li>Other agencies that may assist you</li>
        <li>Species identification</li>
        <li>Identify relevant investigative methods
            <ul>
                <li>Surveillance – physical and electronic</li>
                <li>Undercover</li>
                <li>Technical – phone interception</li>
                <li>Controlled delivery</li>
                <li>Informants</li>
                <li>Crime Scene</li>
                <li>Analytical support</li>
            </ul>
        </li>
    </ul>

    <p>You should utilise the full range of tools at your disposal to investigate offences pertaining to chemical
        waste.</p>

</body>

</html>