<html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">

<head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/base.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/global.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/guide08/resources/css/global.css" />
    <title>8. Identification and Inspection of Chemical Waste</title>
    <meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type" />
</head>

<body>
    <h2>8. Identification and Inspection of Chemical Waste</h2>

    <p>The correct identification of chemical waste is vital to ensure the safety of the suspect, any innocent
        bystanders who may be nearby and most importantly, yourself. The United Nations has introduced a universal
        identification method of identifying hazardous materials to inform transporters, law enforcement officials and
        others, as to the contents of a drum, tank or container. These charts identify the material and the risk posed
        by them. An example of one of these charts in respect to explosives is shown below.</p>

    <p><strong>A1.</strong><strong>1</strong></p>

    <table>
        <tbody>
            <tr>
                <td>Classification</td>
                <td>&#160;</td>
                <td>Labelling</td>
                <td>&#160;</td>
                <td>&#160;</td>
                <td>&#160;</td>
                <td>
                    <p>Hazard statement codes</p>
                </td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td>Hazard<br />
                    Class</td>
                <td>Hazard<br />
                    Category</td>
                <td>Pictogram</td>
                <td>&#160;</td>
                <td>&#160;</td>
                <td>&#160;</td>
                <td>&#160;</td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td>&#160;</td>
                <td>&#160;</td>
                <td>GHS</td>
                <td>UN Model Regulations</td>
                <td>Signal Word</td>
                <td>&#160;</td>
                <td>&#160;</td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td><strong>Explosive</strong></td>
                <td><strong>Unstable Explosive</strong></td>
                <td>&#160;</td>
                <td>Transport Not Allowed</td>
                <td>No Signal Word</td>
                <td>Unstable Explosive</td>
                <td>H200</td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td>&#160;</td>
                <td><strong>Division 1.1</strong></td>
                <td>&#160;</td>
                <td>&#160;</td>
                <td><strong>Danger</strong></td>
                <td>
                    <p>Explosive</p>

                    <p>Mass Explosion Hazard</p>
                </td>
                <td>H201</td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td>&#160;</td>
                <td><strong>Division 1.2</strong></td>
                <td>&#160;</td>
                <td>&#160;</td>
                <td>&#160;</td>
                <td>
                    <p>Explosive</p>

                    <p>Severe Projection Hazard</p>
                </td>
                <td>H202</td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td>&#160;</td>
                <td><strong>Division 1.3</strong></td>
                <td>&#160;</td>
                <td>&#160;</td>
                <td>&#160;</td>
                <td>
                    <p>Explosive</p>

                    <p>Fire, Blast or Projection Hazard</p>
                </td>
                <td>H203</td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td>&#160;</td>
                <td><strong>Division 1.4</strong></td>
                <td>&#160;</td>
                <td>&#160;</td>
                <td><strong>Warning</strong></td>
                <td>Fire or Projection Hazard</td>
                <td>H204</td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td>&#160;</td>
                <td><strong>Division 1.5</strong></td>
                <td>No pictogram</td>
                <td>&#160;</td>
                <td><strong>Danger</strong></td>
                <td>May mass explode in fire</td>
                <td>H205</td>
            </tr>
            <tr>
                <td>&#160;</td>
                <td><strong>Division 1.6</strong></td>
                <td>No pictogram</td>
                <td>&#160;</td>
                <td><strong>No Signal Word</strong></td>
                <td>No hazard statement</td>
                <td>None</td>
            </tr>
        </tbody>
    </table>

    <p>&#160;</p>

    <p>&#160;</p>

    <p>The UN has created 29 individual charts to deal with hazardous materials, including chemical waste.</p>

    <p>You should check if these charts are used in your country. These charts can be located here:
        http://www.unece.org/fileadmin/DAM/trans/danger/publi/ghs/ghs_rev05/English/05e_annex1.pdf</p>

    <p>The appropriate procedures for handling chemical waste is dictated by the type of waste you are delaying with.
        Some need minimal personal protective equipment while some, such as radiological waste may need specialised
        equipment and training. Remember to look at the UN Hazmat tables to identify what type of chemical waste is
        recorded on the drums or container.</p>

    <p><strong>When inspecting chemical waste, you should look for:</strong></p>

    <ul>
        <li>Symbols, words or other marks on the drum or container indicating that the contents are hazardous i.e.
            radioactive, explosive, corrosive, toxic and flammable.</li>
        <li>Symbols, words or other marks on a drum or container that is contains discarded laboratory chemicals,
            reagents, or other potentially dangerous materials.</li>
        <li>Signs of deterioration such as corrosion, rust and leaks.</li>
        <li>Signs that the drum is under pressure such as swelling and bulging.</li>
        <li>Drum or container type.</li>
        <li>Configuration of the drum head.</li>
    </ul>

    <p>Conditions in the immediate vicinity of the chemical waste may also provide information about the waste type.
        Monitoring should be conducted around the drums using instruments such as gamma radiation survey instrument,
        organic vapour monitors and a combustible gas meter.</p>

    <p>The results of this survey can be used to classify the drums/containers into preliminary hazard categories, for
        example:</p>

    <ul>
        <li>Radioactive.</li>
        <li>Leaking/deteriorated.</li>
        <li>Bulging.</li>
        <li>Explosive/shock sensitive</li>
        <li>Contains small-volume individual containers of laboratory wastes or other dangerous materials</li>
    </ul>

    <p>If a barrel of chemical waste is unlabelled then you should assume it contains hazardous materials until their
        contents are confirmed. Also bear in mind that chemical waste may be mislabelled, particularly if the suspects
        are reusing drums or containers.</p>

</body>

</html>