<html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">

<head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/base.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/global.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/guide08/resources/css/global.css" />
    <title>2. International Legal Frameworks Relating to Chem..</title>
    <meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type" />
</head>

<body>
    <h2><strong>2. International Legal Frameworks Relating to Chemical Waste</strong></h2>

    <p>There are several conventions and agreements that relate to the transboundary movement of chemical waste. Some
        of these are regionally based such as the (Convention on the Ban on the Import into Africa and the Control of
        the Transboundary Movement and Management of Hazardous Wastes within Africa (Bamako Convention) and the
        Convention to Ban the Import into Forum Countries of Hazardous Waste and to Control the Transboundary Movement
        and Management of Hazardous Wastes Within the Pacific (Waigami Convention).</p>

    <p>However, the principle convention in relation to chemical waste is the Basel Convention on the Transboundary
        Movement of Hazardous Wastes and their Disposal (Basel Convention).</p>

    <p>There are 189 Parties to the Basel Convention which was initially adopted on 22 of March 1989 and came into
        force on 5 May 1992.</p>

    <p>The overarching objective of the Basel Convention is to protect human health and the environment against the
        adverse effects of hazardous waste. Its scope of application covers a wide range of wastes defined as
        ‘hazardous waste’ based on their composition and their characteristics.</p>

    <p>&#160;</p>

    <p>The provisions on the convention centres around three principal aims;</p>

    <ul>
        <li>The reduction of hazardous waste generation and the promotion of environmentally sound management of
            hazardous wastes; wherever the place of disposal.</li>
        <li>The restriction of transboundary movements of hazardous wastes except where it is perceived to be in
            accordance with the principles of environmentally sound management.</li>
        <li>A regulatory system applying to cases where transboundary movements are permissible.</li>
    </ul>

    <p>Like the CITES Convention for Wildlife, the Basel Convention operates a permit system for the transboundary
        movement of waste where based on the concept of prior informed consent. A State exporting hazardous waste much
        notify the state of import and any transit countries, providing them with detailed information on the intended
        movement. This process is overseen by the Basel Convention Secretariat.</p>

    <p>You can find out information relating to the Basel Convention here
        http://www.basel.int/Implementation/HarmonizedSystemCodes/tabid/2390/Default.aspx</p>

    <p>There are no offence provisions contained in the <em>Basel Convention</em>, for offences relating to the
        Chemical Waste refer to your national legislation.</p>

    <p>In addition to the Basel Convention, in 2015 193 Heads of States agreed on and adapted the 2030 Agenda for
        Sustainable Development. The Agenda has 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and a number of sub-goals. The
        sustainable development goal relevant to Chemical Management is SDG 12 which is to “ensure sustainable
        consumption and production patterns.”</p>

</body>

</html>