<html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">

<head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/base.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/global.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/guide08/resources/css/global.css" />
    <title>13. Financial Investigations</title>
    <meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type" />
</head>

<body>
    <h3>13. Financial Investigations</h3>

    <p>Suspects involved in transnational organised crime are engaged in criminal activity that requires the transfer
        of large sums of money to pay for criminal activities, the movement of smuggled contraband and corrupted
        officials. When you are investigating a smuggling chemical waste offence always ensure that you consider a
        parallel financial investigation for money laundering. These types of investigations can help you identify the
        those who benefit most from the smuggling of chemical waste.</p>

    <p>If you do not have the necessary skills to undertake these types of investigations speak with your supervisor or
        the relevant unit within your department. If you do not have this unit in your department speak with the
        relevant Financial Investigations Unit. Steps that you can take to collect evidence of money laundering can
        occur at different times within your investigation. These include:</p>

    <p><strong>Suspect Profiling:</strong></p>

    <ul>
        <li>Obtaining court orders or warrants for examination of financial records, including bank records, phone
            records and tax returns</li>
        <li>Using services of a forensic accountant to examine financial records</li>
        <li>Conducting business and property checks</li>
    </ul>

    <p><strong>When conducting surveillance:</strong></p>

    <ul>
        <li>What banks do they use?</li>
        <li>What credit cards do they use?</li>
        <li>What vehicles do they use?</li>
        <li>What properties do they control?</li>
    </ul>

    <p><strong>When searching a crime scene or suspect, look for:</strong></p>

    <ul>
        <li>Mobile telephones</li>
        <li>Bank documents</li>
        <li>Property documents</li>
        <li>Business records</li>
        <li>Financial records</li>
        <li>Computers</li>
        <li>Cash</li>
        <li>Receipt books/invoices</li>
        <li>Passports</li>
        <li>Digital recording devices</li>
    </ul>

    <p><strong>When interviewing a suspect:</strong></p>

    <ul>
        <li>What is their income and expenses?</li>
        <li>What properties and assets do they own or lease and how they were funded?</li>
        <li>What businesses or companies do they own?</li>
        <li>Who do they work for?</li>
        <li>What bank accounts do they have in your country or overseas?</li>
        <li>Who is their accountant?</li>
    </ul>

    <p><strong>Also consider:</strong></p>

    <ul>
        <li>Conducting forensic examination of digital devices</li>
        <li>Are they using the services of money lenders or Hawala operators?</li>
    </ul>

</body>

</html>