<html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">

<head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/base.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/library/resources/css/global.css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="https://fieldguides.github.io/guide08/resources/css/global.css" />
    <title>Introduction</title>
    <meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type" />
</head>

<body>
    <h3>Introduction</h3>

    <p>The international trade in chemical waste has been a steadily increasing phenomenon over the past decade. This
        increase has been driven partly by a gap between volumes collected for recycling and the domestic recycling and
        reprocessing capacity in many industrialised countries. Simply speaking we are producing too much chemical
        waste to recycle it effectively.</p>

    <p>This has led to increase in the cost of disposing waste, particularly dangerous chemical waste. This high
        disposal cost has attracted organised crime groups who collect the waste, take the fee for its disposal and
        then dump the chemical waste in landfill or export it overseas.</p>

    <p>According to the United Nations Environment Programme these criminal networks earn between $10 and $12 billion
        dollars per year from waste crime.</p>

    <p>As a frontline law enforcement officer, you are going to come across shipments of smuggled chemical waste. This
        field guide will help you to understand how to develop strategies to identify these shipments and how to
        collect intelligence and evidence against those involved in these criminal activities.</p>

    <p>You should carry this field guide with you while you are on duty. It contains quick-reference tools to address
        situations you are likely to experience in the course of your duty.</p>

</body>

</html>