<html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />


    


    <title>12. Interviewing Suspects</title>
    
<meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type" />
 </head>
<body>
<h2><strong>12. Interviewing Suspects</strong></h2>

<p>You may need to interview suspects who you find in possession of, transporting or accepting chemical waste products.</p>

<p>When you interview a suspect, you need to abide by the rules of interviewing as expressed by your policies, procedures and laws in your country. You should only interview a suspect when you are legally entitled to do so and if you are required to warn the suspects of his rights you should do so. Failing to do this may render your evidence inadmissible. If possible;</p>

<ul>
	<li>Have two officers present</li>
	<li>One officer should take notes</li>
	<li>Record the interview where possible</li>
	<li>Consider the legal rights and welfare of the suspect</li>
	<li>Consider the need for an interpreter</li>
	<li>If the suspect is a juvenile, consider the need for a social worker or other authorised support person</li>
</ul>

<p>Some common questions that should be asked of suspects found in possession of chemical waste:</p>

<p><strong>For owners:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li>Suspects full name, date of birth, phone number, address and identification number</li>
	<li>What is the chemical waste?</li>
	<li>What is the classification of the waste? (UN or H Code)</li>
	<li>Is the waste harmful?</li>
	<li>How much does the waste weigh?</li>
	<li>Who owns the waste?</li>
	<li>How long have you been in possession of the waste?</li>
	<li>Did you receive payment for disposal of the waste?</li>
	<li>How did you intend to dispose of the waste?</li>
	<li>Do you have any permits issued by a government authority in respect of the waste?</li>
	<li>Do you have any documentation in relation to the identification of the waste?</li>
	<li>Clarification questions arising from what the suspect tells you.</li>
</ul>

<p><strong>For transporters:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li>Suspects full name, date of birth, phone number, address and identification number</li>
	<li>Who owns this truck?</li>
	<li>What is in the container?</li>
	<li>What is in the drums?</li>
	<li>Where is your documentation?</li>
	<li>Where did you load the chemical waste?</li>
	<li>Who provided the waste?</li>
	<li>What name do you know them by?</li>
	<li>What do they look like?</li>
	<li>How do you contact this person?</li>
	<li>Was this the first time you received waste from this person?</li>
	<li>Who introduced you to this person?</li>
	<li>When did they give you the waste?</li>
	<li>What were you to do with the waste?</li>
	<li>Who gave the order to you to transport the waste?</li>
	<li>Has the waste been mixed during the transport process with other waste/materials?</li>
	<li>Where were you to go dispose of it?</li>
	<li>How much are they paying you to transport the waste?</li>
	<li>How are you being paid?</li>
	<li>How many other shipments have you done for this company?</li>
	<li>Clarification questions arising from what the suspect tells you</li>
</ul>

<p><strong>For waste/recycling facility:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li>Suspects full name, date of birth, phone number, address and identification number</li>
	<li>Who owns this facility?</li>
	<li>What is the company name?</li>
	<li>Who are the directors of the company?</li>
	<li>When was the company registered?</li>
	<li>How long has this facility been operating?</li>
	<li>What is the primary function of this facility?</li>
	<li>Is this facility registered to receive and recycle waste?</li>
	<li>Where is your documentation for this?</li>
	<li>Do you operate a weighbridge?</li>
	<li>Where is the weighbridge?</li>
	<li>Where is the documentation for the weighbridge?</li>
	<li>What staff member(s) operate the weighbridge?</li>
	<li>Where did this chemical waste come from?</li>
	<li>What type of waste is it?</li>
	<li>Is the waste dangerous?</li>
	<li>What methods do you use to dispose of the waste?</li>
	<li>Describe the treatment process for the waste?</li>
	<li>Is there a pre-treatment for the waste product?</li>
	<li>Describe output materials in detail
	<ul>
		<li>Residues</li>
		<li>By products</li>
		<li>Waste</li>
		<li>Products</li>
	</ul>
	</li>
	<li>Do you charge a fee for this disposal?</li>
	<li>How much do you charge per ton?</li>
	<li>Clarification questions arising from what the suspect tells you.</li>
</ul>


</body></html>