<html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />


    


    <title>1. What is Chemical Waste</title>
    
<meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="Content-Type" />
 </head>
<body>
<h2><strong>1. What is Chemical Waste</strong></h2>

<p>Hazardous waste is defined as a substance that poses a hazard to human health or the environment when not properly managed. A chemical waste is considered hazardous if it exhibits one or more of the following characteristics:</p>

<ul>
	<li><strong>Ignitable</strong> – generally liquids with a flash point below 60°Celsius.</li>
	<li><strong>Corrosive</strong> – generally aqueous wastes with a pH or 2 or less or 12.5 or greater.</li>
	<li><strong>Reactive</strong> – are wastes that unstable, explosive and capable of detonation or reacting violently with water.</li>
	<li><strong>Toxic</strong> – a chemical that poses a hazard to health or the environment.</li>
</ul>

<p><strong>Hazardous chemical waste includes:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li>Chemicals that can no longer be used for their intended use (aged or surplus inventory).</li>
	<li>Mislabeled or unlabeled chemicals.</li>
	<li>Abandoned chemicals.</li>
	<li>Material in deteriorating or damaged containers.</li>
	<li>Residuals in chemical containers.</li>
	<li>Diluted solutions containing hazardous chemicals.</li>
	<li>Used photographic fixer and developer.</li>
	<li>Debris contaminated with a hazardous material (bio-waste, gels).</li>
	<li>Chemicals from e-waste</li>
</ul>

<p>Chemical waste can be both a liquid and a solid. It is important that we understand what constitutes chemical waste as you investigate these types of crimes. You should also be aware what constitutes chemical waste in your relevant legislation.</p>


</body></html>